
GitHub Policy
Fighting for developers
As the home for all developers, GitHub is committed to shaping policies that promote their interests and the future of software. We work on policy in its many forms—laws, regulations, norms, and standard practices—to fight for developers when it matters most.

Every developer has the right to do their best work. Period.
No matter who they are or where they are, we believe developers should be able to work on the projects they care about. This means advocating for policies that promote developers’ most basic rights: The rights to innovation, collaboration, and equal opportunity.

Ahmad Awais
Ahmad Awais/ahmadawais

“This I believe is a big win for open source. Thank you GitHub!”

Carlos Bordachar
Carlos Bordachar/CarlosBordachar

“Bien hecho! 👏”

Andrew Eiche
Andrew Eiche/buddingmonkey

“Let this be the new gold standard of fighting for your users!”

Andrew Eiche
Andrew Eiche/buddingmonkey

“Let this be the new gold standard of fighting for your users!”

Jeff Mosawy
Jeff Mosawy/jmosawy

“It couldn't get any better! A big THANK YOU to GitHub  ❤️ ”

Ahmad Awais
Ahmad Awais/ahmadawais

“This I believe is a big win for open source. Thank you GitHub!”

Samin Aref
Samin Aref/saref

“Thank you Nat Friedman and GitHub for 👏 advocating for disadvantaged developers 👏 standing up against discriminatory rules and 👏 fighting for your values.”

Josh Nichols
akazemi10

“Great work by the team at GitHub 👏 This is amazing news for both Iranian developers and global developer collaboration.”

Jeff Mosawy
Jeff Mosawy/jmosawy

“It couldn't get any better! A big THANK YOU to GitHub  ❤️ ”

Innovation
Developers constantly solve new problems and build on previous solutions. Being a developer requires the freedom to experiment, learn, and share.

Collaboration
Software development is a global exercise in teamwork. In order to innovate, build, and keep the world’s software secure, developers must be able to work together.

Equal Opportunity
Software development thrives in an open and inclusive environment. When everyone has equal access and opportunity to contribute, we all benefit.

How we make an impact

Protecting open source from EU copyright law
When the EU began working on the Copyright Directive in 2016, software developers weren’t on policymakers’ minds. Drafts effectively required upload filters that would have wreaked havoc on online software collaboration. We worked to mobilize developers and convey their concerns to members of parliament, and together we succeeded: The final text included an exemption for “open source software developing and sharing platforms.”

Learn more 

Advancing developer freedom and access in Iran
No matter where developers may live, we’re committed to keeping as much of GitHub available to as many developers as possible. As part of this commitment to support software development everywhere, we make the case to governments for licenses and changes to the law. Starting in 2019, we worked with the US government’s Office of Foreign Assets Control to obtain a license to fully serve developers in Iran. Building on this success, we’re pursuing similar efforts to be able to fully serve developers in Crimea and Syria, and are also advocating for changes to the law so that all developers can have access — whether they use GitHub or other collaboration tools.

Learn more 

Establishing the Developer Defense Fund
Section 1201 of the US DMCA can pose challenges to developers. Each year, GitHub receives a small number of 1201 takedown claims, contending that developers are hosting code that illegally circumvents a technological protection measure. To help, GitHub has committed $1 million to establish a Developer Defense Fund and sponsored the GitHub Developer Rights Fellowship at Stanford Law School’s Juelsgaard Intellectual Property and Innovation Clinic.

Learn more 
Areas where we advocate
Platform responsibility
Protecting developers’ ability to collaborate by providing a safe and inclusive space that transparently respects rights to free expression, assembly, and association.

Innovation
Advocating for copyright, patent, and employment rules that foster exploration, collaboration, and the freedom to tinker on side projects.

Open source
Encouraging governments to use open source as a tool of public policy, to work proactively with open source contributors, and to support open source software in legislation and regulation.

Global collaboration
Supporting developers to work with anyone, anywhere, so they can build secure and useful software that benefits their local communities.

Inclusion
Breaking down barriers so anyone can become a developer and we can build a developer community that reflects our global diversity.



“
GitHub is leading the way for developers’ rights worldwide. Our Policy team uses its voice to advocate for the developer community and shape policies that impact the software ecosystem as a whole.

Mike Linksvayer // Head of Developer Policy


Get involved

Open an issue
Need help on a developer policy or want to share feedback?

Visit our repository 

Send us an email
Interested in collaborations or scheduling a meeting?

Email us 
Site-wide Links
The developer newsletter
Get tips, technical guides, and best practices. Twice a month. Right in your inbox.

Platform
Features
Enterprise
Copilot
AI
Security
Pricing
Team
Resources
Roadmap
Compare GitHub
Ecosystem
Developer API
Partners
Education
GitHub CLI
GitHub Desktop
GitHub Mobile
GitHub Marketplace
MCP Registry
Support
Docs
Community Forum
Professional Services
Premium Support
Skills
Status
Contact GitHub
What is Git?
Sitemap
Company
About
Why GitHub
Customer Stories
Blog
The ReadME Project
Careers
Newsroom
Inclusion
Social Impact
Shop
© 2026 GitHub, Inc.
Terms
Privacy
Manage cookies
Do not share my personal information